- No single aspect of software engineering
can cause as much disagreement between team members
as the management of the code base,
except maybe the standards of the code in that code base.
That being said, the management of the code base
is critical for the twelve-factor methodologies.
The code base itself must be tracked
in a version control system.
Now, while I'm a fan of Git,
you can use any form of version control.
The code repository, or repo,
contains a single application with a common root commit.
Even if it is a distributed repo like Git,
the strategy for managing the repo is up to the team.
But a single application in a single repo is key.
So, this may beg the question,
how are multiple environments handled?
The answer to that question is through deploys.
An application, while it exists in a single code base,
may have multiple deploys of that application.
Now, let's envision, for a moment, an ecosystem
that has a non-prod and a prod environment.
You might have a branch for production,
another branch for non-production code,
and then feature branches for each developer.
The developer is working on the feature branch
and they're doing local deploys of the application
as they write the code.
Once they're done, they'll submit a poll request
or a code review
to move the code to the non-production branch.
Once that is approved, the code will be merged
and deployed to the non-prod environment.
At some point in the lifecycle of the feature,
it will be ready for prod.
At that point, it is merged into the production branch
and then deployed.
So, we have multiple deploys, but a single code base.
Keep in mind that every feature
may not make it to primetime
and that's perfectly okay.
Part of managing the code in a single code base
is making educated decisions on when to deploy
and what to deploy.
The trick to this is managing the code base
in way that it doesn't get clogged up
with features that are not going to be deployed for any reason.
From my experience, you should avoid staging your deploys
where you load several features at once
onto a deployable branch.
This will potentially cause a code management nightmare
when the inevitable defect rears its ugly head,
or, worse yet, when requirements change at the last minute.
Not that that would ever happen.
One of the key points here
is that at any point in production,
you can trace a similar deployment
in non-prod or in a staging environment.
Essentially, we have the entire history of our application.
If a bug is found, we can trace where it exists
and where it was introduced.
This allows us to determine if Quality Gates
need to be amended.
Now, for teams already managing code in VCS,
this is simply an evolution
of what you are currently doing.
And, indeed, you may already be doing it
for traditional applications.
For those not using VCS to manage your code,
it's time to do so.
The benefits of VCS go way beyond
twelve-factor application development,
but that's beyond the scope of this course.
So, simply put, use VCS,
track a single application per code base,
and deploy often from that code base.
That's the first factor.